- might have some competition from
Nvidia CEO Jensen Wan who today hosted
his GTC 20/20 keynote from his kitchen
so he's going for the old lioness
kitchen set look as opposed to the bill
- kitchen in your office look and the
keynote focused on ampere and videos new
architecture and the launch thereof
there are a lot of points to go through
today
Andrea's GTC events are typically
focused on data center deep learning AI
things of that nature but a lot of the
technology comes to gaming and there was
explicit mention of gaming technologies
at Nvidia's GTC 20/20 keynote this year
including of course RT X and some
mention of DL SS as well so we're going
to talk through all of it today
including ampere and its data center
installment right now and how that will
come down to gaming later before that
this video is brought to you by CD
projekt red and the cyberpunk 2077 PC
modding contest the cyberpunk 2077 team
is hosting a case modding contest that
gives winners the opportunity to work
with professional case modders to build
the ultimate system you don't have to do
any physical modding to enter the
contest just a mock-up with three views
of the mod the theme is the future is
recyclable the contest ends on May 17th
and cyberpunk steam will select five
winners to partner with pro case motors
to make it a reality
learn more and enter the contest using
the link in the description below or go
to cyberpunk net
cyber up based on key notes from Nvidia
in the past we end up with things like a
Volta Torian situation where Volta
wasn't really it technically had a
deployment in the Titan VIII but for the
most part it wasn't really a type of
card our audience would buy taurine did
end up picking up where Volta left off
though and so ampere is probably going
to be a scenario where it looks like
there's going to be a direct gaming
deployment of the ampere architecture as
opposed to something like a Volta Torian
split but we'll find out later in the
year for that it's still relevant though
and going through the initial
installment of ampere is going to be
important for setting the stage for what
anybody is working on for the rest of
the year we ended up watching all of the
company's uploads it had about eight at
the time of filming to its YouTube
channel and we thought that it was going
to be a live stream it's a pre-recorded
video but instead they just ended up
doing a straight upload with a part
admittedly it was at times difficult
to listen to because the editing was
pretty rough there were a lot of
correction phrases that were thrown and
spliced into it we're obviously now
ampere is the largest most complex
processor the world has ever made
thousands of engineers worked on it for
several years and it came together in
this one incredible chip someone decided
that they wanted to add clarifying
statements into an existing cut and as
we know from recording you record
voiceover at different times of the day
and your voice sounds different so we
can pick it out but for the most part it
doesn't really matter it's just two
keynote all right so there wasn't a lot
of r-tx news let's start with the gaming
stuff about time stamp but hopefully
below and there were some RT X news
where the company mostly reminded
everyone of DL SS and its existence it
showed off the LSS 2.0 again this was
not an announcement to DL SS 2.0 that's
already been announced and from the
deployments we've seen so far it is
genuinely improved over DL SS and its
original deployments and even the more
recent 1.9 or whatever it was
Quanah acknowledged that quote most
people didn't think this would work
speaking of DL SS and showing the
initial blurrier installation of it and
he even acknowledged that quote the
first generation was a little bit blurry
and it really was so it's good to see
that Nvidia his self-aware Nvidia claims
that DL SS 2.0 did a better job than
1080p native did we just zoom talking
about 720 p dl SS regarding RT ax and
ray tracing products it was mostly
re-emphasis of the product stack and the
focus of ray tracing in terms of just
concept and getting it into gaming more
no new r TX cards today not really that
surprising they said quote when we
launched people were skeptical but now
it's here and just to be fair here
people were skeptical because when an
video launched the RT X cards were dying
left and right
we had viewers sent us like 13 or 14 or
16 hours a lot about RT x cards that
were dead and also to be fair when you
launched Nvidia it was about 55 days
until the first RT X game came out for a
card that had RT X in the name there's
another marketing issue or just like
what a hamdi has done you end up in a
scenario where you're my
getting a product on something with at
launch at least for RTX questionable
existence so the naming really mattered
there that's why people were skeptical
to give an Vidya credit absolutely they
are correct that DL SS 2.0 is massively
improved and RT X in a lot of ways is
has finally gotten wider spread and
gaming look at control for a better
implementation of it or minecraft for a
look at the most recent implementation
that we've tested on the roost Nvidia
talked about its omniverse solution
which is an RT x server filled with RT x
8000 Quadros none of these feature new
GPU architecture the company showed off
a fully playable physics based ball game
kind of like spectra ball or other
classics camera movements in that were
somewhat nauseating to watch it was
really hard to look at but the graphics
were the focal point and you can look at
the demo on the channel if you want
Nvidia amp here is the big one here so
Nvidia did its usual world's largest the
GPU announcement you've likely seen the
Jenson pulling a video card out of his
oven clip that circulated the other day
and that's what this was
Nvidia ampere and the 8 100 processor
board is what got the unveil in Jensen's
kitchen and this is built for data
center and enterprise use and it isn't a
gaming product clearly but it is
something that will eventually feed into
them and it's worth covering just
because it's a major advancement in its
respective space we learned more about
that board in today's video keynote the
a100 processor board weighs 50 pounds it
hosts 8 GPUs via the new NV link 600
gigabyte per second interface and it has
6 switches some additional interesting
facts that were thrown in just for fun
include one kilometer of copper traces
connecting all the hardware and 1
million drill holes to hold it all
together
that last fact isn't much of a surprise
given how much Nvidia likes its screws
and r-tx cards but Nvidia also noted
that it's comprised of over 30,000
components so those were some busy SMT
lines and it also noted quote that it
has the most transistors on one computer
ever mate and videos ampere also
features a new MIG architecture or multi
instance GPUs for elastic GPU computing
after a somewhat strained rocketship
analogy Quan ended up explaining that
MIG allows each a 100 GPU to be split
into up to seven instances you cannot
run it as one GPU or as any subset of
one to seven and most cards as they're
used now are typically in a one GPU
solution but not sure if virtualization
is the correct terminology to be used
here but it's sort of virtualizing seven
instances isolated for applications or
isolated users in those instances for
data center the implication is that you
can have down costed access to less
computing Hardware for applications that
don't need as much horsepower or you can
run standalone GPU solutions to host a
higher end user and they're just sub
users on a card so if you're Amazon you
may end up doing something like selling
six instances to a major AI company and
then selling one instance to a
university student or something like
that
amperes focus is on inference and
training and the partitioning into
smaller GPUs seemingly is its primary
selling point other than the just direct
speed improvement over the previous
generations and be 100 Nvidia says that
data centers can be architected such
that smaller GPU partitions are used for
scale out applications or that large GPU
instances are used for scale up
applications this is out of our coverage
scope so we're just giving you the
keywords and if you work in this area
hopefully that means something to you
for those in our audience who may do
more artificial intelligence deep
learning or machine learning
applications we know there's a few of
you we'll go through some of the stats
that Nvidia presented in its keynote
today and videos performance slide had
only the data labels for peak
performance but most of the peaks were
close enough to the sustained average
and at Cambridge Nexus we admittedly
aren't sure exactly what researchers for
this type of card want inspects anyway
it's not our coverage area but for the
numbers given Nvidia claims that a 100
FP 64 double precision performance is 20
teraflops versus 8 on V 100 volt o with
FP 64 assuming the same approach to
measuring that number that's obviously a
big jump but how that translates to
real-world performance will hinge on the
application again in the world of gaming
that we
it's certainly not linear to go from tea
flops translating it to something like
FPS or frame times but we aren't sure
exactly the deployments here the
tensorflow performance was listed as 16
teraflops on the v 100 or for FP 32
tensor float or 160 on the a 100 and
sparse data optimisation at 310
teraflops for peak FP 32 attempts our
float rep pete 16 and video noted the 8
100 sparse data performance at 625 non
sparse performance at 310 teraflops and
v 100 at 125 and video separately noted
that most people use FP 32 for their
work in the space and so it focuses on
FP 32 and not FP 16 into 8 or integer 8
performance has Nvidia claiming that the
a 100 is quote the first processor over
1 petaflop marking the a 112 50
teraflops peak for sparse 625 non sparse
and using the V 160 teraflops 4 into 8
as a reference point
Nvidia also used a speech recognition
demo to identify Birds based on the
sounds they made primarily using this as
an example of how the instances
processed data when split or combined on
the a 100 cards with all seven MiG's
working as a single GPU just as a
reference point and video noted 500
queries per second whereas it compared
this to Voltas 80 queries per second for
the same application the next major
announcement was D GX which is Nvidia's
mini supercomputer that it solves to
business and enterprise and datacenter
clients we've actually seen parts of the
definitely not DG acts being made at the
definitely not Coolermaster Factory as
well and the new one features the same
gold mash faceplate as the previous
generation of DG X and videos new DG X a
100 solution is the third installment of
its dgx line it's had to before this
Nvidia says that it's been optimizing
for training data analytics and for
inference and because the DG X has 8 of
the Nvidia a 100 GPUs it can be split
into 56 instances for simultaneous users
or it can be used as a GPUs if you want
to do it that way the machine has nine
Mellanox ex6 interconnects this is worth
pointing out just because Nvidia only
recently acquired Mellanox emerged or at
least well eight Mellanox
I was gonna say merged but didn't really
do that they just consumed that their
Knicks are at 200 gigabits per second
and 4 CPUs NVIDIA has tapped AMD is at
64 core Epic Rome processors it's got 2
of them in the new dgx version 3 and
those are running 120 8 cores total for
each DG Xbox including one terabyte of
memory between them for system memory
the new NV link also makes an appearance
again at six hundred gigabytes per
second really important note here and V
link in these applications is not the
same as that bridge that you get for
gaming cards and V link for gaming is
still using SLI in terms of its
architecture but NV link and data center
is dealing with a lot more data going
across the bridge so when they say new
600 gigabyte per second on V link don't
think you're gonna get a 600 gigabyte
per second NB link bridge for gaming
because it's not gonna need all that
data they're already at cut-down rates
for the existing deployments and that's
what makes them so much cheaper for
gaming versus for the professional
bridge as you can buy so other specs on
dgx include 15 terabytes of PCIe nvme
storage for SSD storage and 4.8
terabytes per second of bi-directional
bandwidth the dgx will cost one hundred
ninety nine thousand dollars making it
actually pretty significantly cheaper
than previous dgx as we've seen where
they've been four hundred grand for
example and if you felt buyer's remorse
from the twenty seventy super launch
about buying an RT X twenty eighty and
maybe being able to have spent $200 less
if you had waited a few months imagine
being the guy who bought a four hundred
thousand dollar mini supercomputer and
then hearing that the new ones two
hundred grand
Nvidia gave an example of a twenty five
rack AI data center priced at eleven
million dollars estimated and said it
required in this example six hundred
thirty kilowatts to run noting it had 50
DG x1 system so that's not the most
recent but two generations ago with six
hundred CPU systems for inference and
said that that's compared to the newest
dgx a one hundred solution which would
be 1 million dollars for one rack at 28
kilowatts with a major space reduction
anybody's the PageRank algorithm as a
benchmark here and
and crawl dataset to test performance of
the two devices noting 2.6 terabytes of
data and 128 billion edges calling this
a small fraction of the Internet there's
definitely correct on that and video
said that it usually takes three
thousand servers and 105 racks the same
time to analyze fifty two billion edges
per second versus four dgx a 100s via
and vlink combining them to one giant
dgx basically as a as Jensen Wan
described it to process 688 billion
edges per second Wan then made the usual
the more you buy the more you save
comment but this time kind of laughed at
himself so he's apparently and on the
choke now and Vidya also announced it's
Nvidia egx
a 100 solution and this seems to have a
heavier focus on security and
authenticated boot and IOT to some
extent eg X has a Mellanox connect X 6
network card that's integrated on to the
PCB onto the a 100 and this solutions
100 gigabit per second Ethernet or
InfiniBand onboard solution the two
together are what differentiate this as
egx as opposed to the other a 100
deployments that we've seen in videos
keynote today it noted that its focus
for these is on automation and
advancement in training and highlighted
that it's got a partnership with BMW now
where Nvidia provided some stats that
are actually kind of interesting for car
enthusiasts where they said Nvidia
builds 40 car models with 100 options
every day it apparently imports 30
million parts to do this across 2,000
suppliers distributes those two
apparently 30 factories and then
referenced just-in-time manufacturing
where new crates of parts are dropped
off as the old ones are getting emptied
and it's almost at least this the
assembly part is almost entirely done by
automation at this point or human
assisted automation so this is all done
to assemble one car in 56 seconds which
is insane for a number of reasons well
that's really more of a BMW stat than it
is an Nvidia stat either way Nvidia is
partnering with BMW USPS and some others
for robotics and automation training so
that'll be an interesting interesting
thing to watch videos of you like to see
robots doing stuff they have some clips
of it
they're keynotes about this that will
cover us for all of Nvidia's
announcements for GTC 2020 the big ones
obviously ampere it is not currently a
solution that we're going to be getting
here and overclocking or working with
for gaming tests but it's something that
should lead into the next gaming
architecture which is definitely due out
this year for another r-tx
probably three thousand threes launches
everyone's calling it right now so
that's it for this one thanks for
watching and subscribe for more as
always get a patreon our communes Nexus
or store documents access net said
directly and we'll see you all next time
[Music]